[Flow] Add Redis Component (#3000)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.integration.redis.md

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.​integration.redis
---

# prometheus.integration.redis
The `prometheus.integration.redis` component embeds

> [redis_exporter](github.com/oliver006/redis_exporter) for collecting metrics from a redis database.

Reviewer: The link isn't working for me in the preview.  Might need to include http?  https://github.com/oliver006/redis_exporter

## Usage

```river

> prometheus.integration.redis "LABEL"{
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
prometheus.integration.redis "LABEL" {
}
```

```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
Omitted fields take their default values.

> Name | Type | Description | Default | Required

Reviewer 2: I have similar concerns here with the length of descriptions. If something needs to be longer than a single sentence, can the remainder of the information be moved outside of the table?

For an example, check out `otelcol.exporter.otlp`, specifically the queue block: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.exporter.otlp/#queue-block

---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `redis_addr`                  | `string`   | Address (host and port) of the Redis instance we should connect to. This could be a local Redis instance (e.g. `localhost:6379`), or the address of a remote server. | | yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`redis_addr`                  | `string`   | Address (host and port) of the Redis instance to connect to. This can be a local Redis instance (e.g., `localhost:6379`) or the address of a remote server. | | yes
```

`redis_user`                  | `string`   | User name to use for authentication (Redis ACL for Redis 6.0 and newer).  | | no

> `redis_password`              | `string`   | Password of the redis instance. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`redis_password`              | `string`   | Password of the Redis instance. | | no
```

> `redis_password`              | `string`       | Password of the Redis instance. | | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`redis_password`              | `secret`       | Password of the Redis instance. | | no
```

> `redis_password_file`         | `string`   | Path of a file containing a passord. If this is defined, it takes precedece over redis_password. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`redis_password_file`         | `string`   | Path of a file containing a password. If defined, it takes precedence over redis_password. | | no
```

> `redis_password_map_file`     | `string`   | Path of a file containing a JSON object which maps Redis URIs to passwords (e.g. `{"redis://localhost:6379": "sample_password"}`). | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`redis_password_map_file`     | `string`   | Path of a file containing a JSON object which maps Redis URIs to passwords (e.g., `{"redis://localhost:6379": "sample_password"}`). | | no
```

`namespace`                   | `string`   | Namespace for the metrics.  | `"redis"` | no
`config_command`              | `string`   | What to use for the CONFIG command. | `"CONFIG"` | no

> `check_keys`                  | `string`   | Comma separated list of key-patterns to export value and length/size, searched for with SCAN. | | no
> `check_key_groups`            | `string`   | Comma separated list of LUA regex for grouping keys. When unset, no key groups will be made. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`check_keys`                  | `string`   | Comma-separated list of key-patterns to export value and length/size, searched for with SCAN. | | no
`check_key_groups`            | `string`   | Comma-separated list of Lua regular expressions (regex) for grouping keys. When unset, no key groups are made. | | no
```

Reviewer: Hyphenate compound modifiers before a noun. We use Google Developer Style Guide -- here's the section: https://developers.google.com/style/hyphens#compound-modifiers

Author: Good to know - thanks!

> `check_key_groups_batch_size` | `int`      | Check key or key groups batch size hint for the underlying SCAN. Keeping the same name for backwards compatibility, but this applies to both key and key groups batch size configuration. | `10000` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`check_key_groups_batch_size` | `int`      | Check key or key groups batch size hint for the underlying SCAN. The option name reflects key groups for backwards compatibility, but this applies to both key and key groups. | `10000` | no
```

> `max_distinct_key_groups`     | `int`      | The maximum number of distinct key groups with the most memory utilization to present as distinct metrics per database. The leftover key groups will be aggregated in the 'overflow' bucket. | `100` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`max_distinct_key_groups`     | `int`      | The maximum number of distinct key groups with the most memory utilization to present as distinct metrics per database. The leftover key groups are aggregated in the 'overflow' bucket. | `100` | no
```

Reviewer: Use present tense.  Google style guide section: https://developers.google.com/style/tense.

> `check_single_keys`           | `string`   | Comma separated list of single keys to export value and length/size. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`check_single_keys`           | `string`   | Comma-separated list of single keys to export value and length/size. | | no
```

> `check_streams`               | `string`   | Comma separated list of stream-patterns to export info about streams, groups and consumers, searched for with SCAN. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`check_streams`               | `string`   | Comma-separated list of stream-patterns to export info about streams, groups, and consumers to search for with SCAN. | | no
```

> `check_single_streams`        | `string`   | Comma separated list of single streams to export info about streams, groups and consumers. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`check_single_streams`        | `string`   | Comma-separated list of single streams to export info about streams, groups, and consumers. | | no
```

> `count_keys`                  | `string`   | Comma separated list of individual keys to export counts for. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`count_keys`                  | `string`   | Comma-separated list of individual keys to export counts for. | | no
```

> `count_keys`                  | `string`   | Comma-separated list of individual keys to export counts for. | | no

Reviewer 2: It's a little weird to me how many of these fields are a comma-separated list. Should we change them to use a `[]string` instead? 

It would introduce more differences between the Flow component and the existing integration, but it might be a better user experience which is harder to get wrong in the config file. 

WDYT @spartan0x117 @captncraig?

Author: It'd definitely be a better user experience, generally. It _could_ be a tiny bit more tedious to switch from using the exporter directly or using the agent in non-flow-mode -> using flow, as it would require converting these values for the new flow config (granted that could be done pretty quickly using a simple script).

Author: If we wanted to do that, I just pushed a commit that changes the flow config to accept `[]string`s and converts them to comma-separated strings in `Convert()`. I also tested a few with a minimal local example and verified the data being sent.

If we decide not to go that route I'll just have to revert that last commit before merging.

`script_path`                 | `string`   | Path to Lua Redis script for collecting extra metrics. | | no
`connection_timeout`          | `duration` | Timeout for connection to Redis instance (in Golang duration format). | `"15s"` | no
`tls_client_key_file`         | `string`   | Name of the client key file (including full path) if the server requires TLS client authentication. | | no
`tls_client_cert_file`        | `string`   | Name of the client certificate file (including full path) if the server requires TLS client authentication. | | no
`tls_ca_cert_file`            | `string`   | Name of the CA certificate file (including full path) if the server requires TLS client authentication. | | no
`set_client_name`             | `bool`     | Whether to set client name to redis_exporter. | `true` | no

> `is_tile38`                   | `bool`     | Whether to scrape Tile38 specific metrics. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`is_tile38`                   | `bool`     | Whether to scrape Tile38-specific metrics. | | no
```

Reviewer: Hyphenate compound modifiers before nouns.

`export_client_list`          | `bool`     | Whether to scrape Client List specific metrics. | | no

> `export_client_port`          | `bool`     | Whether to include the client's port when exporting the client list. Note that including this will increase the cardinality of all redis metrics. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`export_client_port`          | `bool`     | Whether to include the client's port when exporting the client list. Note that including the port increases the cardinality of all Redis metrics. | | no
```

> `redis_metrics_only`          | `bool`     | Whether to also export go runtime metrics. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`redis_metrics_only`          | `bool`     | Whether to just export metrics or to also export go runtime metrics. | | no
```

> `ping_on_connect`             | `bool`     | Whether to ping the redis instance after connecting. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ping_on_connect`             | `bool`     | Whether to ping the Redis instance after connecting. | | no
```

> `incl_system_metrics`         | `bool`     | Whether to include system metrics like e.g. redis_total_system_memory_bytes. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`incl_system_metrics`         | `bool`     | Whether to include system metrics, for example, redis_total_system_memory_bytes. | | no
```

`skip_tls_verification`       | `bool`     | Whether to to skip TLS verification. | | no

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `redis` metrics.

> For example, the `targets` could either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
> component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
> component that collects the exposed metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.
```
